---
layout: post
title: "KonMari"
description: "How I did it and what worked for me."
tags: [downsizing]
image:
takeaway: ["Is the KonMari method valuable to you?"]
published: false
---

I have MAJORLY minimized my lifestyle. I underwent another process of clearing out and letting go, realizing more and more the extent to which physical items can detract from my energy and the things I am currently doing by being symbols of failure, things left undone, or simply having outlived their purpose in my life; and my clearing-out has forced me to confront what I truly love, the kind of lifestyle I want to lead at home, and what ongoing gladness for my home looks like. I've sold nearly my entire library, downsized to about 2 drawers of clothes, cleared out the kitchen, given away way more knick-knacks than I can even think of. In the process I have confronted the pain of failing things I had wanted to do--like not doing projects in a timely way--and allowed myself to get the closure, the ending of a thing, that I had been trying to get by keeping those items around with the burdening intention of doing that project in the future. I've confronted and worked through a lot of inner strife this way and although I still have a ways yet to go, I can already really feel the lightness of being that comes of unburdening oneself of the things that had come to me in joyfulness but turned into duty. I'm clearing out what I have mistakenly said 'yes' to without consideration of my circumstances, both those things that I intended for the present and the future. I feel how so many of my mixed-up feelings about things are clearing away and becoming more themselves--turning more clearly into sadness, or regret, or gladness, or adoration. I really like how ambiguity is turning into clarity while losing its emotional baggage. I think I'm better for it.
