---
layout: post
title: "Failing to finish"
description: "Here's what an md file looks like with this theme."
tags: [clarity, deliberate-choices]
image: tiny-house.jpg
takeaway: ["Why is it worth it for you to break up with your clutter?"]
published: false
---

I had a difficult, uncomfortable reaction to what KanMari was writing about letting go of books you haven't read. At first I had this sense of not being done after the major purge of 100+ books. Then I followed that thread to the realization of failure.
I have   a lot of endeavors in my life. First and greatest, I failed my first major relationship--my relationship with my mother. I failed to get good grades in middle school, failed to get into more than two high schools, failed to get good grades in high school or do all the things I had wanted to, failed to get into any school other than SBU, failed to take courses that I was frightened of because I was scared to fail, failed to graduate with a major I could be proud of, failed to meaningfully use the things I had worked hard to learn. I failed my major romantic relationship--not to mention all my relationships from Andrey to Zeev--and failed to make the right financial judgement call. I failed to get everything I wanted out of my graduate degree, and failed again to meaningfully turn the things I learned into ongoing value.
And I realized how painfully these failures sit on me. I have known for a while that I engage mentally and emotionally with past failures in an attempt to figure them out, to finish them, get closure, do it right this time. And in doing so I got on to those failures as though I can alter the past, or complete it somehow. All that is illusion... And so I realized that the desire to hold on to past failures expressed itself in part through the desire to hold onto materials i feel i need to finish those failures--feeling to me as though on fact I'm finishing projects that are simply elongated into time. And I feel like I have saved myself so much grief and strife and mistaken action. Because everything that I have succeeded in in my life, it is all over, and everything I have failed in my life--also over!
So I got a huge spurt of energy and pulled a ton of books off my already lean shelves. I left only those I have read and want to read again and again in physical format, and books that offer interesting knowledge that I am curious about just because I want to know, not because I think I will do something with that knowledge. And I think at some point im going to give up on those too, post the titles on Pinterest and just get them from the library when I feel like it.
I did it because I am shaken to realuze how much emotional energy I had had left caught up in trying to finish projects--aka trying to rewrite pass failures--that was then unavailable for the things I am needing energy for in the present: coding, Thomas, running the household. It frightened and upset me to know how hard I had held on--and how I had thought to myself, haha, can't think of anything I've failed at in my life!
No more. I am liberating myself. I'm sorry, past me. I'm sorry it was so fucking hard. We didn't make it, becayse sometimes no matter how hard we try, things don't work out. It doesn't matter why. All that matters then is letting go completely, so that the next endeavor isn't at such a huge risk of failure because we're still trying to solve the last one.
